Add May 2021 newsletter (#449)
USRSE/usrse.github.io: _posts/newsletters/2021-05-22-newsletter.md

**Website**: The website working group is working on a new design for the us-rse.org website. The group is meeting bi-weekly and a beta version of a new website is in development. The new site promises to have better functionality and usability while still retaining the international RSE community feel. If you’d like to contribute please join the[ #website](https://usrse.slack.com/messages/website) channel in the US-RSE Slack to join in the conversation.

<a name="workshop"></a>
# **2021 US-RSE Virtual Workshop**

> Following the success of the 2020 US-RSE Virtual Workshop, the event this year is also virtual due to the ongoing pandemic. The [2021 US-RSE Virtual Workshop](https://us-rse.org/virtual-workshop-2021/) will be held on two non-consecutive half days: May 24 and 27, 2021, 1-4pm ET/12-3pm CT/10am-1pm PT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following the success of the 2020 US-RSE Virtual Workshop, the event this year is also virtual due to the ongoing pandemic. The [2021 US-RSE Virtual Workshop](https://us-rse.org/virtual-workshop-2021/) will be held on two non-consecutive half days: May 24 and 27, 2021, 1 - 4 pm ET, 12 - 3 pm CT, 11 am - 2 pm MT, 10 am - 1 pm PT.
```

Reviewer: no reason just to make MT people calculate...

> The theme of the workshop is "A Path forward for Research Software Engineers." The workshop will feature talks, community events, and working group sessions. It will be held via Zoom and some parts, such as the talks, will be recorded and available after the workshop via the [US-RSE YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7IQsWv809OQYJ-sJKuQZrw). The workshop is free but [registration is required, here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSetiGdTiHSTfil4-LL_R3eZEyNIIfGtSJqjTsViBPcldsJtJw/viewform).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The theme of the workshop is "A Path Forward for Research Software Engineers." The workshop will feature talks, community events, and working group sessions. It will be held via Zoom and some parts, such as the talks, will be recorded and available after the workshop via the [US-RSE YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7IQsWv809OQYJ-sJKuQZrw). The workshop is free but [registration is required, here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSetiGdTiHSTfil4-LL_R3eZEyNIIfGtSJqjTsViBPcldsJtJw/viewform).
```

Reviewer: I think this is a good change to accept

***You can still submit breakout sessions by Monday before the workshop!*** See more details [here](https://us-rse.org/virtual-workshop-2021/participate/).

<a name="501c3"></a>
# **US-RSE Open Collective 501(c)(3) created**

US-RSE has formalized its membership in the Open Collective Foundation (OCF) fiscal host entity. OCF provides us an open platform for transparently managing the US-RSE long-term finances. Next steps will include a blog post that describes the sorts of things this could facilitate, and a breakout discussion at the 2021 US-RSE Virtual Workshop on possible fiscal priorities for the US-RSE.

<a name="communitycall"></a>
# **US-RSE Community Calls**

> We will have our next community call on June 10, 2021 at 12-1pm ET. Have a look nearer to the date in the slack channel #communitycalls to vote for a topic! You can find the videos from past community calls in our YouTube channel. Here is the one from [April](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9LwPO2bdHRE). We did not have a call in May since we will have the Second US-RSE Virtual Workshop on Monday and Thursday (May 24 and May 27). See above for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will have our next community call on June 10, 2021 at 12-1pm ET. Have a look nearer to the date in the slack channel [#communitycalls](https://usrse.slack.com/archives/CLBDQMJH5) to vote for a topic! You can find the videos from past community calls in our YouTube channel. Here is the one from [April](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9LwPO2bdHRE). We did not have a call in May since we will have the Second US-RSE Virtual Workshop on Monday and Thursday (May 24 and May 27). See above for more information.
```

<a name="podcast"></a>
# **Podcast**

The Research Software Engineer Stories podcast has eight more episodes. Check them out below!
* Daniel S. Katz - [Sustaining People](https://us-rse.org/rse-stories/2021/dan-katz/)
* Paul Richmond - [Working with you rather than for you](https://us-rse.org/rse-stories/2021/paul-richmond/)
* Ron Rahaman - [The Software Engineering Challenge](https://us-rse.org/rse-stories/2021/ron-rahaman/)
* Mark Turner - [From Engineer to Manager](https://us-rse.org/rse-stories/2021/mark-turner/)
* Daniel Nüst - [Are You Interested in Riddles?](https://us-rse.org/rse-stories/2021/daniel-nuest/)
* Frank Loeffler - [It's a process](https://us-rse.org/rse-stories/2021/frank-loeffler/)
* Edd Salkield - [Dreaming Spires](https://us-rse.org/rse-stories/2021/edd-salkield/)
* Mark Abraham - [Career Structures for RSEs](https://us-rse.org/rse-stories/2021/mark-abraham/)

<a name="events"></a>
# **Interesting Events**

> Some other events coming up may be of interest to RSEs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some other events coming up that may be of interest to RSEs include:
```

* Internet2 has a virtual series of events with some of interest for the RSE community. You can see the overview of upcoming events [here](https://internet2.edu/upcoming-events/i2-online/). July 1 will be a [panel discussion](https://internet2.edu/upcoming-events/i2-online/#july) moderated by Sandra Gesing on sustainability of science gateways, for example. [Registration](https://service5.internet2.edu/reg/events/i2cv-0701/registrations) is required and free of charge.

> * [SciPy 2021](https://www.scipy2021.scipy.org/register) comes up July 12 -18 2021. Registration is open, and you can apply to receive [financial support](https://www.scipy2021.scipy.org/financial-aid) through May 31.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [SciPy 2021](https://www.scipy2021.scipy.org/register) will be held July 12 -18 2021. Registration is open, and you can apply to receive [financial support](https://www.scipy2021.scipy.org/financial-aid) through May 31.
```

* The deadline for [HICSS 2022](http://hicss.org/) is on June 15. HICSS has a [Software Technology](https://hicss.hawaii.edu/tracks-55/software-technology/) track with several minitracks, for example, a minitrack on  [Software Sustainability](https://hicss.hawaii.edu/tracks-55/software-technology/#software-sustainability-strategies-for-long-lasting-and-usable-research-software-minitrack) and a minitrack on [Smart (City) Application and Data Streaming Development](https://hicss.hawaii.edu/tracks-55/software-technology/#smart-city-and-data-streaming-application-development-challenges-and-experiences-minitrack).

> * [PEARC21](https://pearc.acm.org/pearc21/) will take place July 19-22 2021. The program will be published in June after author notifications have been sent out. PEARC21 has US university **[student program](https://pearc.acm.org/pearc21/student-program/)** funding for helping with registration fees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [PEARC21](https://pearc.acm.org/pearc21/) will take place July 19-22 2021, and the program will be published in June. PEARC21 has a **[student program](https://pearc.acm.org/pearc21/student-program/)** to help fund registration fees for US university students.
```

<a name="sc21"></a>
# **Upcoming CFP: RSE-HPC-2021 workshop at SC21**

> [Research Software Engineers in HPC (RSE-HPC-2021)](https://us-rse.org/rse-hpc-2021/) has been accepted as a workshop at [SC21](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/) in November!  The Call for Papers will go out in early June, with a submission deadline in early August.  Details of the call are being finalized and will be announced soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Research Software Engineers in HPC (RSE-HPC-2021)](https://us-rse.org/rse-hpc-2021/) has been accepted as a workshop at [SC21](https://sc21.supercomputing.org/) in November!  Details of the call for papers are being finalized and will be announced in early June, with a submission deadline in early August.  
```

2. [Neutron Data and Computing Program Manager](https://jobs.ornl.gov/job/Oak-Ridge-Neutron-Data-and-Computing-Program-Manager-TN-37830/724194700/): Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN
3. [Senior Research Software Engineer](https://main-princeton.icims.com/jobs/12582/senior-research-software-engineer/job): Princeton University, Princeton, NJ
4. [Research Software Engineer](https://brown.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/staff-careers-brown/job/180-George-Street/Research-Software-Engineer_REQ169311): Brown University, Providence, RI
5. [HPC Applications Performance Engineer, Hewlett Packard Enterprise](https://hpe.wd5.myworkdayjobs.com/Jobsathpe/job/Bloomington-Minnesota-United-States-of-America/HPC-APPLICATIONS-PERFORMANCE-ENGINEER_1080055-1): Various locations
6. [Software Engineer](https://recruit.ap.ucsb.edu/JPF01941): Benioff Ocean Initiative at University of California, Santa Barbara, CA (currently remote)

<a name="news"></a>
# **Community News**

> * Daniel S. Katz and Neil Chue Hong are editing a special issue of PeerJ CS on software citation, indexing and discoverability, so if you are doing any work in this area, please consider submitting it to this [special issue](https://peerj.com/special-issues/84-software).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Daniel S. Katz and Neil Chue Hong are editing a [special issue of PeerJ CS on software citation, indexing and discoverability](https://peerj.com/special-issues/84-software), so if you are doing any work in this area, please consider submitting it to this [special issue](https://peerj.com/special-issues/84-software).
```

> * DHTech, a community of people doing technical work in Digital Humanities, are conducting a survey to gauge the interest for a technical mentorship program. If you work in Digital Humanities, please consider filling out the survey! More information can be found [on the DHTech website](https://dh-tech.github.io/mentorship-survey).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* DHTech, a community of people doing technical work in Digital Humanities, are conducting a [survey](https://dh-tech.github.io/mentorship-survey) to gauge the interest for a technical mentorship program. If you work in Digital Humanities, please consider filling out the [survey](https://dh-tech.github.io/mentorship-survey)!
```

<a name="reads"></a>
# **Interesting Reads**

Items you may have missed on the blog and Slack:

> * The 10 Best Practices for Remote Software Engineering:  [https://cacm.acm.org/opinion/articles/252174-the-10-best-practices-for-remote-software-engineering/fulltext](https://cacm.acm.org/opinion/articles/252174-the-10-best-practices-for-remote-software-engineering/fulltext)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [The 10 Best Practices for Remote Software Engineering](https://doi.org/10.1145/3459613), by Vanessa Sochat in Communications of the ACM
```

> * The Institute for Research and Innovation in Software for High Energy Physics (IRIS-HEP) published an article on [building a career path for research software engineers](https://iris-hep.org/2021/05/12/career-path-rse.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Institute for Research and Innovation in Software for High Energy Physics (IRIS-HEP) published an article by Eoin O'Carroll on [building a career path for research software engineers](https://iris-hep.org/2021/05/12/career-path-rse.html).
```

> 

Reviewer: * Implementing FAIR for research software: attitudes, advantages and challenges, [part one](https://software.ac.uk/blog/2021-05-19-implementing-fair-research-software-attitudes-advantages-and-challenges-part-one) and [part two](https://www.software.ac.uk/blog/2021-05-20-implementing-fair-research-software-attitudes-advantages-and-challenges-part-two?_ga=2.132757834.599148255.1621692340-781456882.1621522583), by Leyla Jael Castro, Diego Alonso Álvarez, Stian Soiland-Reyes, Markus Löning, Sam Harrison, Faruk Diblen, Abhishek Dasgupta, Morane Gruenpeter and Paula Andrea Martinez, from the Software Sustainability Institute's Collaborations Workshop 2021 speed blog series.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Implementing FAIR for research software: attitudes, advantages and challenges, [part one](https://software.ac.uk/blog/2021-05-19-implementing-fair-research-software-attitudes-advantages-and-challenges-part-one) and [part two](https://www.software.ac.uk/blog/2021-05-20-implementing-fair-research-software-attitudes-advantages-and-challenges-part-two), by Leyla Jael Castro, Diego Alonso Álvarez, Stian Soiland-Reyes, Markus Löning, Sam Harrison, Faruk Diblen, Abhishek Dasgupta, Morane Gruenpeter and Paula Andrea Martinez, from the Software Sustainability Institute's Collaborations Workshop 2021 [speed blog series](https://www.software.ac.uk/tags/cw21-speed-blog-posts).
```
